---
title: Wearable monitoring
subtitle: (brain and heart)
layout: default
modal-id: 1
img: wearable
thumbnail: roundicons-thumbnail.png
alt: image-alt
members: Navin Cooray, Kaare Mikkelsen
collaborators: Stefan Debener
partners: cEEGrid
category: Wearable
---

Traditionally, the electroencephalogram (EEG) is recorded with expensive hardware in a highly controlled lab environment. In order to enable brain monitoring in daily life situations, we built in collaboration with Stefan Debener from Oldenburg University a small, lightweight and wireless system that can be steered with Android software. This makes the concept of fully mobile EEG-based brain monitoring and real-life Brain Computer Interfaces (BCI) very realistic. Mobile EEG is needed in various contexts, e.g. for long-term neurorehabilitation programs in home environments, for assessing listening effort or monitoring correlations of auditory attention in challenging listening environments to steer hearing devices, monitoring drowsiness, improving brain fitness in the elderly, etc.

One drawback of using traditional EEG caps in natural environments is that it attracts attention. Therefore, we focus research efforts on miniaturizing the mobile EEG device. A first prototype of a near-invisible high-quality brain monitoring device was developed in collaboration with Neuropsychology at the University of Oldenburg, CRITIAS (ETS, Montreal) and Sonomax, as shown in the figure. Such around-the-ear devices allow for continuous and reliable monitoring of brain activity and have the additional possibility to record vital signs in a convenient way.

Our group aims to advance machine learning and signal processing routines to extract relevant information from the brain for different real-life applications.
